BioInfo Api Future improvements


This document describes the possible future improvements to the BioInfo Api in order to deploy it and make it production ready. 
Here is a small list of all the possible aspects of improvements that can be made : 


Security:
 Data Encryption: Enhance data security by implementing end-to-end encryption for sensitive information.

Authentication Mechanisms: Implementation of an authentication/authorization system to access the end point this can be done by using  a Json WebToken, session Based authentication or the Built in django token authentication

API Key Management: this can be achieved by  using Django rest framework Api key

Rate Limiting:Enforce rate limiting on API requests to prevent abuse and ensure fair usage.

Debugging:
Comprehensive Logging: Enhance logging mechanisms to capture detailed information for debugging and auditing purposes.

Error Handling:The error handling and reporting must be to provide meaningful feedback to users and developers, especially after deployment since the DEBUG mode of Djangoapp will turned to False


Testing:
Automated Testing: Develop a comprehensive suite of automated tests, including unit tests, integration tests, and end-to-end tests.
Unit testing : This can be done by using the Django.test, and implies testing the views models and serializers of the django app
Postman :Postman can be used to perform  load testing to assess system performance under various traffic conditions.

User Interface:

User Experience (UX) Improvements: This can be implemented by improving the styling and the layout of the templates 
Data Visualization: Implementing a data visualization tool such as JS D3  might help to present the data intuitively.

Deployment:
Cloud services :This requires choosing and setting up a cloud service account and adding a domain name if needed, and adding an SSL/HTTPS certification 
Containerization : to Provide Dockerfiles and Docker Compose configurations for streamlined deployment.
GIT:To ensure data integrity and continuous improvement of the application, and also to avoid data loss 

Additional Features:
Advanced Search: The search capabilities can be enhanced  with advanced filters and order query options. For example a user can look for data with a score located on a specific range.
Data Export Formats: Providing support for exporting data in multiple formats, such as Excel, PDF, or others.
